 Lease Agreement
Page 1 of 36
Residential Lease 
Agreement
1818 McKee St
San Diego, 
 
California 92110
ZILLOW DRAFTED THIS LEASE PURSUANT TO THE LEGAL REQUIREMENTS OF SAN DIEGO, 
.
California
WHILE ZILLOW HAS MADE AN EFFORT TO OFFER THE MOST CURRENT AND ACCURATE INFORMATION 
POSSIBLE, LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE AND THE INFORMATION IN THIS LEASE MAY 
NOT REFLECT THE MOST CURRENT LEGAL DEVELOPMENTS. ZILLOW MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR 
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AS TO THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE 
INFORMATION INCLUDED IN THIS LEASE. IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS ABOUT THE LEGAL IMPLICATIONS 
OF THIS LEASE, PLEASE CONSULT WITH A LICENSED, LOCAL ATTORNEY.
ZILLOW DISCLAIMS ALL LIABILITY RESULTING FROM ANY CHANGES MADE OUTSIDE OF THE ZILLOW 
PLATFORM, INCLUDING ANY CHANGES THAT VIOLATE APPLICABLE LAW.
 Lease Agreement
Page 2 of 36
Table of Contents
Documents incorporated into, and attached as part of, this Lease agreement are selected below:
Basic Terms & Additional Terms
Pet Addendum
Parking Addendum
Rules Addendum
Pre-Occupancy Work Addendum
Lead Based Paint Hazard Disclosure
Megan's Law Disclosure
Asbestos Report
Flood Hazard Disclosure
Methamphetamine Laboratory Contamination Notice
Tenant Protection Act Disclosure
Information about Bed Bugs
Death in the Property Notice
Military Facilities Disclosure
Protect Your Family from Lead in Your Home Pamphlet
 Lease Agreement
Page 3 of 36
This Residential Lease (
) is entered into on the date of the last signature below (the 
) between 
Lease
Effective Date
 (
) and
Jeffrey Altman Landlord
Deborah Hample and 
 (together and separately, 
)
Riley Pasha
Tenant
for 
 
1818 McKee St San Diego, CA 92110 (Property).
Landlord hereby leases the Property to Tenant, subject to the terms and conditions of this Lease:
1. Basic Terms
1.1. AMOUNTS DUE FROM TENANT UPFRONT
1.1.1. Refundable Deposit
$
 Security Deposit due at signing (
 below)
4,650.00
Section 1.6
1.1.2. Rent for First Month
$
 Prorated Monthly Rent for partial first month of the Term due at signing (See 
 below)
0.00
Section 1.4
$
 Monthly Rent for full first month of the Term due at signing (See 
 below)
3,650.00
Section 1.4
1.1.3. Total Due Upfront
$
 due at signing.
8,300.00
$
 due at Start Date.
0.00
1.2. PROPERTY
Property Location
1818 McKee St San Diego, CA 92110
The Property is a unit in a multifamily residence (for example, an apartment, condominium, tenancy-in-common, in-law 
suite, duplex, or multiplex) (
) located at 
.
Building
1818 McKee Street San Diego, CA 92110
The Property includes all appliances, fixtures, and equipment installed on the Property as of the Start Date (as defined 
below), including the following:
Refrigerator; Oven/range; Microwave; Dishwasher; Clothes washer; Clothes dryer; Ceiling fans .
1.3. TERM
Fixed Term. The term of this Lease (
) will begin on 
 (
) and end on 
 (
Term
January 31, 2025 Start Date
January 31, 2026
). If the Term is for two years or longer, Landlord may only terminate or refuse renewal of the Lease as 
Expiration Date
permitted by the San Diego Municipal Code.
1.4. RENT
1.4.1. Base Rent; Monthly Rent
Tenant is responsible for paying monthly rent for the use and occupancy of the Property (
) and all other fixed 
Base Rent
rent and fixed charges described in this Lease (collectively, 
) on the 
 day of each month (
Monthly Rent
1st
Monthly Rent 
). The Monthly Rent is $
. First month’s Monthly Rent is due on upon executing this Lease.
Due Date
3,650.00
 Lease Agreement
Page 4 of 36
1.4.2. Additional Rent
Any amount Tenant may be required to pay Landlord or any other party under this Lease in addition to Monthly Rent will 
be additional rent (
). The Monthly Rent and any Additional Rent are collectively referred to as “
”. 
Additional Rent
Rent
Additional Rent includes, without limitation:
Any applicable charges for utilities and/or other services to the Property, in amounts that vary by month (Variable 
), payable to Landlord within 
 days of billing.
Charges
15
The cost of utilities required to be arranged for and paid by Tenant directly to the service provider.
The Insufficient Funds Fee, which is $25 for the first dishonored payment, and $35 for each subsequent 
dishonored payment.
The Late Fee is $
.
150.00
1.4.3. Manner of Payment
All Rent payable to Landlord must be paid by one of the following:
Check or money order made payable to the following recipient and delivered to the following address: Jeffrey Altman 
1820 McKee Street 
.
San Diego, CA 92110 
Electronically by online payment service: 
. Landlord will provide Tenant with Landlord’s account information.
Zelle
ACH/direct deposit. Landlord will provide ACH/direct deposit payment information to Tenant directly.
Online payments with Zillow Payments.
 Lease Agreement
Page 5 of 36
1.4.4. Rent Summary
Tenant’s Rent responsibilities are summarized below:
Monthly Rent
Base Rent
$3,650.00
Parking Rent Section 1.8
$0.00
Storage Rent Section 1.9
N/A
Pet Rent Section 1.10
N/A
Electricity Section 1.5.1
Tenant pays San Diego gas and electric
Natural Gas
N/A
Heating Oil
N/A
Heat Section 1.5.2
N/A
Water/Sewer Section 1.5.3
Tenant pays City of San Diego water utilities
Trash Removal Section 1.5.4
Tenant pays City of San Diego (only if The city begins charging in the 
future)
Landscaping
Landlord does not provide
Telephone Section 1.5.6
Tenant pays
Cable TV Section 1.5.7
Tenant pays
Internet Section 1.5.8
Tenant pays
Homeowner/Condominium 
Assessment
N/A
TOTAL
$3,650.00
 Lease Agreement
Page 6 of 36
1.5. UTILITIES AND SERVICES
Landlord and Tenant agree that utilities and other services will be provided and paid for as outlined below:
1.5.1. Electricity
Tenant will arrange and pay for the cost of electrical service for the Property directly to the service provider. The name of 
the Property’s electrical service provider is: 
.
San Diego gas and electric
1.5.2. Heat
Heat is not provided separately from other utilities. The cost of heat is included in the utility costs (natural gas, electricity, 
or heating oil, as provided) necessary to run the heating system, and will be paid by the party responsible for the 
applicable utility.
1.5.3. Water and Sewer
Tenant will arrange and pay for the cost of water and sewer service for the Property directly to the service provider. The 
name of the Property’s water and sewer service provider is: 
.
City of San Diego water utilities
1.5.4. Trash Removal
Tenant will arrange and pay for the cost of trash removal. The name of the Property’s trash removal service provider is: 
.
City of San Diego (only if The city begins charging in the future)
1.5.5. Snow Removal
Landlord does not provide snow removal services for any portion of the Property or, if applicable, the Building grounds.
1.5.6. Telephone
Tenant will arrange and pay for the cost of telephone services.
1.5.7. Cable Television
Tenant will arrange and pay for the cost of cable or other premium television services.
1.5.8. Internet
Tenant will arrange and pay for the cost of internet service.
1.6. SECURITY DEPOSIT
Tenant is required to pay a security deposit to Landlord when the Lease is signed. The security deposit is $
 (
4,650.00
). 
 of this Lease contains terms relating to the Security Deposit.
Security Deposit
Section 2.4
1.7. TENANT INSURANCE
Tenant is required to obtain and maintain at all times during the Term renter's insurance covering Tenant’s personal 
property and damage to property with per occurrence limits of not less than $
. Landlord (and Managing Agent, 
10,000.00
if any) will be named as an interested party. Tenant will provide Landlord with evidence of any required renter's 
insurance prior to moving in and upon request during the Term.
1.8. PARKING
Tenant may park in areas designated by Landlord on Building grounds (
) and will pay parking rent of $
 
Parking Area
0.00
total per month (
) for  car(s). An addendum (
) is attached to this Lease which sets 
Parking Rent
3
Parking Addendum
 Lease Agreement
Page 7 of 36
forth the specific terms of, and limitations on, Tenant’s parking rights. Except as expressly permitted in the Parking 
Addendum, neither Tenant nor any other Occupants is allowed to park, or permit any of their guests or invitees to park, 
on the Building grounds.
1.9. STORAGE SPACE
No storage room/storage locker (including any common areas) or other area exterior to the Property is provided for in 
this Lease.
1.10. PETS
Tenant is only permitted to keep pet(s) on the Property that are identified in the addendum (
) attached to 
Pet Addendum
this Lease, and will comply with all terms of the Pet Addendum. Tenant is not required to carry renter’s insurance which 
includes coverage for pet ownership.
1.11. ADDITIONAL RULES
Tenant’s use and occupancy of the Property is subject to the following policies, rules, regulations, covenants, restrictions 
and other matters of record attached to this Lease:
Any Landlord specified rules governing use of the Property (
).
Rules Addendum
1.12. SMOKING POLICY
Smoking means: (i) inhaling, exhaling, breathing, carrying, or possessing any lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe, or any other 
lighted or heated tobacco or plant product intended for inhalation including hookahs or any similar product, whether 
natural or synthetic, in any manner or in any form; or (ii) use of an electronic smoking device which creates an aerosol or 
vapor, in any manner or in any form.
Smoking is not allowed in the Property and, if applicable, all common areas of the Building and on Building grounds.
In addition to any other remedies Landlord may have under this Lease or at law, Landlord may charge Tenant a fee of up 
to $250 for a second and subsequent violations if Tenant smokes in a clearly designated non-smoking Property or area 
of the Building or Building grounds.
Tenant may use marijuana in accordance with state law. Landlord’s prior written consent is required before marijuana 
may be grown on the Property.
 Lease Agreement
Page 8 of 36
2. Additional Terms
2.1. PROPERTY CONDITION
Tenant has examined the Property, either in person or virtually, prior to signing this Lease and, as of the date of this 
Lease, is satisfied with its condition and appearance (
). Landlord has agreed to perform work on the 
Existing Condition
Property prior to the Start Date as described in the addendum (
) attached to this 
Pre-Occupancy Work Addendum
Lease.
2.2. POSSESSION
In the event Landlord cannot deliver possession of the Property to Tenant by the Start Date, through no fault of Landlord, 
this Lease will continue in full force but Tenant, as Tenant’s sole remedy, will not be obligated to pay the Monthly Rent 
(prorated based upon a 30-day month) for the period that Tenant is unable to take possession. If Landlord fails to deliver 
possession of the Property by the 30th day following the Start Date, Tenant may terminate this Lease by written notice 
delivered to Landlord at any point before actual possession of the Property is delivered to Tenant, in which event all 
amounts paid to Landlord by Tenant will be returned and both parties will be released from all obligations and liability 
under this Lease.
2.3. RENT PAYMENT
2.3.1. Payment Timing
Tenant will pay the Monthly Rent to Landlord, (or Landlord’s Managing Agent, if specified above), in advance, on the 
Monthly Rent Due Date of each month during the Term according to the payment details specified in the Basic Terms. 
Variable Charges, if any, will be payable according to the timeframe specified in the Basic Terms.
2.3.2. Late Payment
If Tenant fails to pay the Monthly Rent or any other Rent in full by the end of the day  day(s) after it is due, a fee (
5
Late 
) in the amount specified in the Basic Terms to this Lease will be immediately assessed. The Late Fee is due by the 
Fee
end of the day after it is assessed. Acceptance of late payment does not waive Landlord’s right to require payment of 
Monthly Rent in full on the date it is due.
2.3.3. Returned Checks / Dishonored Payments
If any payment of any Rent or other charges under this Lease is returned for insufficient funds or otherwise fails, Tenant 
will pay Landlord a fee in the amount specified in the Basic Terms. Landlord will also have the right to require the 
dishonored payment be replaced by a cashier’s check, certified check, or money order. Should more than two of Tenant’
s payments to Landlord during the Term be returned for insufficient funds, Landlord may require that all future payments 
of Monthly Rent and other obligations be paid by cashier’s check, certified check, or money order.
2.3.4. Acknowledgment of Damages
Tenant acknowledges that late payment of Monthly Rent or any other Rent or issuance of a returned check will cause 
Landlord to incur costs and expenses, the exact amounts of which are extremely difficult and impracticable to determine. 
These costs may include, but are not limited to, processing, enforcement, and accounting expenses, and late charges 
imposed on Landlord. Landlord and Tenant agree that the Late Fee and Insufficient Funds Fee represent a fair and 
reasonable estimate of the costs Landlord may incur by reason of Tenant’s late or dishonored payment. Landlord’s 
 Lease Agreement
Page 9 of 36
acceptance of any Late Fee or Insufficient Funds Fee shall not constitute a waiver as to any default of Tenant. Landlord’
s right to collect a Late Fee or Insufficient Funds Fee shall not be deemed an extension of the date Monthly Rent is due 
or prevent Landlord from exercising any other rights and remedies under this Lease and as provided by law.
2.4. SECURITY DEPOSIT
2.4.1. Use of Security Deposit
Landlord will hold the Security Deposit in a segregated account if required by applicable law. Interest on the Security 
Deposit will be retained by Landlord, unless required to be paid to Tenant under applicable law. Subject to applicable 
law, Landlord may use the Security Deposit to: (i) remedy Tenant Defaults (as defined in 
 below) under this 
Section 2.9.1
Lease, including past due Rent; and/or (ii) pay for costs incurred by Landlord to repair damages to the Property caused 
by Tenant, any Occupants, or any guests of Tenant or any Occupants, beyond ordinary wear and tear (collectively, 
). The Security Deposit will not relieve Tenant of any obligation to pay any Rent due under this Lease 
Deposit Claims
prior to termination. If a Pet Damage Deposit is required, it will be considered a Security Deposit and subject to the terms 
of this Section.
2.4.2. Return of Security Deposit
The Security Deposit, less any Deposit Claims, will be returned to Tenant within 21 days (or shorter period as required 
by local ordinance) after Tenant vacates the Property upon expiration or earlier termination of this Lease. The returned 
portion of the deposit will be sent as a single check payable to Tenant(s) listed in the Basic Terms, or as otherwise 
agreed to by Landlord and Tenant. Any Deposit Claims will be described in an itemized statement provided with the 
returned portion of the deposit. If the Deposit Claims exceed $125, Landlord will provide to Tenant copies of documents 
showing the charges incurred and deducted by Landlord to repair or clean the Property. Tenant will provide a forwarding 
address to Landlord where the Security Deposit, less Deposit Claims, and the itemized statement will be mailed. In the 
event Tenant fails to provide a forwarding address, the Security Deposit and statement will be sent to Tenant’s last 
known address, which may be the Property, and Landlord will not be liable for Tenant’s delayed receipt of, or failure to 
receive, the Security Deposit and itemized statement.
2.4.3. Credit Reporting Notice
Landlord may submit a negative credit report on Tenant’s credit record to a credit reporting agency if Tenant fails to fulfill 
the terms of Tenant’s credit obligations, including the financial obligations under this Lease.
2.5. TENANT'S OBLIGATIONS
2.5.1. Residential Use Only
Tenant will use and occupy the Property for residential purposes only. Tenant will not use or permit the use of the 
Property for any non-residential, illegal, or otherwise inappropriate purpose, including for any commercial purpose.
2.5.2. Permitted Occupants
Subject to applicable law, the Property will not be occupied by anyone other than the following: (i) Tenants; (ii) 
Occupants identified in the Basic Terms; and (iii) children under the age of majority of any Tenant (and Tenant will notify 
Landlord promptly after any such children take occupancy).
2.5.3. No Disturbance or Nuisance Permitted
Tenant will not, and will not permit any Occupants or any guests to: (i) make any unreasonably loud or otherwise 
unreasonable use of the Property; (ii) allow any condition on the Property or, if applicable, common areas of the Building 
that poses threat of injury to persons or property; or (iii) otherwise interfere with the rights, comfort, safety, or enjoyment 
of the other tenants or occupants of the Building (if applicable) or neighboring properties.
 Lease Agreement
Page 10 of 36
2.5.4. Utilities
Tenant will not cause any utility to be interrupted during the Term, and will provide Landlord with reasonable evidence 
that any utility specified as Tenant’s responsibility has been paid upon Landlord’s reasonable request.
2.5.5. Maintenance
Tenant will: (i) keep and maintain the Property in a clean, safe, and sanitary condition; (ii) regularly dispose of all 
garbage and other waste in a clean and safe manner, not overload any trash receptacles, and separate and dispose of 
recyclable and compostable materials in any provided separate receptacles; (iii) use all appliances, fixtures, and 
equipment located in the Property in a safe and reasonable manner in keeping with their intended function and, if 
provided to Tenant, the applicable operating instructions; (iv) not obstruct access to doors and windows; and (v) maintain 
the Property in the same condition as it was delivered to Tenant, except for ordinary wear and tear. Landlord has 
installed one or more operational smoke detectors and carbon monoxide detectors. If the Property has a gas heater or 
appliance, fireplace or an attached garage, Tenant will regularly (not less often than once per month) test the detectors 
and notify Landlord of any deficiencies for Landlord to correct. Tenant will pay to repair any damage to the Property 
caused by Occupants or any guest of Occupants, except for ordinary wear and tear.
2.5.6. No Transfer
Tenant will not sublease or assign all or any portion of the Property without the prior written consent of Landlord, in 
Landlord’s sole discretion. Any attempted sublease or assignment of the Property or this Lease without the prior written 
consent of Landlord will be void and cause for termination of this Lease by Landlord. No sublease of the Property will 
release Tenant from any obligation under this Lease, and Tenant will be liable for any violations of this Lease caused by 
a subtenant. Tenant will not rent the Property, or any portion of the Property, including through any rental program such 
as “Airbnb,” “VRBO,” or similar program, and Tenant’s entry into any short-term rental agreement will be cause for 
termination of this Lease by Landlord.
2.5.7. No Alterations
Tenant will not perform any alterations or improvements to the Property without the prior written consent of Landlord, in 
Landlord’s sole discretion. Alterations and improvements include adding, changing, or removing appliances, fixtures, 
shelving, wallpaper, or wall paint. In addition, except as required by applicable law, Tenant is not allowed to arrange, and 
will not permit, the installation of new or additional wiring, cabling, or equipment without Landlord’s prior written consent, 
in Landlord’s sole discretion. If Tenant violates this provision, Tenant will return the Property to its original condition at 
Tenant’s sole cost and expense. If Landlord approves of any alterations, Tenant understands that any applicable 
alterations will remain as part of the Property at the end of the Term. Tenant will not subject the Property to any liens in 
connection with making any alteration or improvement and will indemnify Landlord from all costs and expenses related to 
alterations, improvements, or liens.
2.5.8. Joint Liability
All individuals executing this Lease as Tenants will be jointly and severally liable for the performance of all agreements, 
covenants, and obligations of a Tenant contained in this Lease.
2.6. LANDLORD'S OBLIGATIONS
2.6.1. Services and Utilities
Landlord will only provide the services and utilities as specified in the Basic Terms and as otherwise required under 
applicable law. Tenant waives all liability of Landlord for any interruption or insufficiency of any service or utility resulting 
from causes beyond the reasonable control of Landlord.
 Lease Agreement
Page 11 of 36
2.6.2. Maintenance and Repairs
Subject to Tenant’s duties under 
 above, Landlord will maintain the Property (including its structural elements, 
Section 2.5
roof, and systems) in good order and repair and, if applicable, will maintain the Building common areas, in a clean, safe, 
and sanitary condition. Landlord will be responsible for, and will pay for, repairing (and restoring to working condition) the 
appliances, fixtures, or equipment located in the Property, except if any repairs are necessary as a result of improper use 
by Tenant or any Occupant, or the guest of Tenant or any Occupant. Tenant will notify Landlord promptly in writing upon 
becoming aware of any condition within the Property or, if applicable, in the Building, that requires repair or maintenance 
by Landlord. Landlord will undertake any required repairs reasonably promptly (and in any event in accordance with 
applicable law), based on the condition, following receipt of notice. Delay by Landlord in performing or completing any 
repair will not permit Tenant to complete the repair or incur related expenses or to terminate this Lease, except as 
permitted by applicable law.
2.7. LANDLORD'S ACCESS
Landlord, its agents and contractors, will have the right of reasonable access to the Property during normal business 
hours to perform its obligations of maintenance and repair of the Property or, if applicable, any other portion of the 
Building, as long as Tenant is provided (in writing, by telephone, or other means designed in good faith to provide notice) 
24 hours’ notice (or six days if the notice is mailed) prior to entry, except that in the case of an emergency or, if 
applicable, if repairs or maintenance elsewhere in the Building unexpectedly require access, Landlord may immediately 
access the Property and will give Tenant notice of the entry within two days after. Landlord and its agents will have the 
right to access the Property during normal business hours for the purpose of showing the Property to prospective tenants 
and purchasers. Landlord will provide 24 hours (or six days if the notice is mailed) prior notice given to Tenant (in writing, 
by telephone, or by other means designed in good faith to provide notice) before any showing. Tenant will not prevent 
Landlord from accessing the Property in order to conduct showings for which Tenant was provided notice.
2.8. SURRENDER
2.8.1. End of Term
Tenant will surrender possession of the Property and return the keys to Landlord immediately upon the Expiration Date 
or earlier termination of this Lease. At the time of surrender, the Property will be in the same condition as the Start Date, 
except for ordinary wear and tear, and otherwise in clean condition and free of all personal property of the Occupants. To 
the extent permitted by applicable law, any personal property left on the Property after Tenant vacates the Property will 
be deemed abandoned by the Occupants and may be disposed of by Landlord at Tenant’s cost (and may be deducted 
from Tenant’s Security Deposit by Landlord). Neither Landlord nor Tenant is obligated (and neither has any right) to 
unilaterally renew or extend the Term of this Lease. If all Occupants do not vacate the Property by the Expiration Date or 
earlier termination of this Lease, Landlord may commence legal proceedings allowed by applicable law to remove and 
evict Tenant from the Property and will be entitled to recover from Tenant double the Monthly Rent prorated based on a 
30-day month (or the maximum rent allowed for holdover under applicable law, if less) for the period until Landlord 
regains possession of the Property. Alternatively, if Landlord accepts Tenant’s payment of the Monthly Rent otherwise 
due under this Lease for the month after the end of the Term, then this Lease will be deemed to continue on a month-to-
month basis at the applicable Monthly Rent as identified above and otherwise on the same terms and conditions as 
contained in this Lease. Either Landlord or Tenant may terminate the month-to-month tenancy as of the date specified in 
a written notice of termination given to the other party, as provided in 
.
Section 1.3
2.9. DEFAULT
2.9.1. Default by Tenant
 Lease Agreement
Page 12 of 36
Tenant will be in default (Default) if: (a) Tenant fails to pay any Monthly Rent by  days after Monthly Rent is due and 
7
does not cure the failure within three days of receiving written notice from Landlord; (b) Tenant fails to pay any Additional 
Rent by  days after the Additional Rent is due and does not cure the failure within three days of receiving written notice 
7
from Landlord or; (c) Tenant fails to comply with any other obligation or restriction in this Lease and does not cure the 
failure within three days of receiving written notice from Landlord. If Tenant Defaults under this Lease, Landlord may 
exercise all rights and remedies available under applicable law, including the right to: (a) terminate this Lease; (b) regain 
possession of the Property through an eviction or similar process; (c) recover from Tenant all unpaid Rent, including 
unpaid Monthly Rent, Additional Rent, Late Charges and, if applicable, holdover Rent for the period prior to Tenant’s 
delivery of possession of the Property to Landlord; (d) recover all Rent payable under this Lease for the period from the 
date of termination for Tenant Default through the stated Expiration Date, less the amount Landlord is able to collect 
from any replacement tenants for that period; and (e) recover all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by Landlord in 
repairing any damage to the Property, caused by the improper use by any Occupant or any guests of an Occupant, less 
any amounts obtained from the Security Deposit. Additionally, to the extent permitted under applicable law, Landlord 
may recover from Tenant Landlord’s court costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees and expenses incurred in connection 
with any legal proceedings against Tenant. To the extent required by applicable law, Landlord will use reasonable efforts 
to mitigate any damages resulting from Tenant Default. Landlord and Tenant agree that as a condition for granting relief 
from forfeiture, Tenant shall pay all back rent, pay Landlord’s attorneys’ fees and costs, and pay any other damages 
sustained by Landlord, as a condition for relief from forfeiture.
2.10. NOTICES
Any notice of termination of this Lease, notice of Default by Tenant under this Lease or any other notice required to be 
given in writing under applicable law (
) will be in writing and sent to Tenant and Landlord at the 
Material Notices
applicable address set forth in 
 below. Except for Material Notices, all other written notices under this Lease 
Section 2.15
may be delivered to the other party at the e-mail address or physical address of the party specified in 
, or by 
Section 2.15
other electronic means agreed to by the parties. Either party can update its email or physical address by sending written 
notice to the other party.
2.11. TENANT'S PROPERTY
Tenant acknowledges that Landlord’s insurance does not cover loss or damage to any of Tenant’s personal property 
located on the Property and that Landlord will not be liable for any damage to Tenant’s personal property. If required by 
the Basic Terms, Tenant will obtain and maintain (during the Term) renter’s insurance of at least the level stated in the 
Basic Terms. Upon Landlord’s request, Tenant will provide Landlord a certificate of insurance as evidence of the policy. 
Even if no policy of renter’s insurance is required, Landlord recommends that Tenant obtain renter’s insurance.
2.12. GENERAL
This Lease will be governed by the laws of the State of 
, and any additional laws of the city or county in which 
California
the Property is located. This Lease will be binding on and inure to the benefit of all permitted heirs, legal representatives, 
and assigns of the parties. This Lease, along with the attached Addenda and legal disclosures, contains the entire 
agreement between Landlord and Tenant and may not be changed except in writing signed by all parties. If any 
provision of this Lease is found to be invalid or unenforceable, all other provisions contained in this Lease will remain 
binding and enforceable to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law.
2.13. DISCLOSURES / ADDENDA
 Lease Agreement
Page 13 of 36
Tenant acknowledges that the legal disclosures and addenda (
) attached to this Lease are part of the legal 
Addenda
agreement between the parties. Tenant will comply with all applicable rules and regulations set out in the attached 
Addenda. The terms of this Lease will control in the event of any conflict between the terms of any Addenda and the 
terms of the Lease.
2.14. EXECUTION
All individuals indicated in the Basic Terms as comprising Tenant will sign this Lease and related attached Addenda 
where indicated. Each of Landlord and Tenant consents to the other party’s execution of this Lease by electronic 
signature. Delivery of this Lease containing the electronic signature of a party or otherwise by facsimile through 
electronic means or as a digital copy will have the same full force and effect as a manually executed original version.
 Lease Agreement
Page 14 of 36
2.15. CONTACT INFORMATION
2.15.1. Tenant
Tenant’s address is required for notice prior to the Start Date. Notices after the Start Date will be made to the Property.
Tenant Name
Address for Notice Prior to Start Date
Phone
Email
Deborah Hample
2341 Ulric St 
San Diego, CA 92111
(541) 743-5169
deborahample@gmail.com
Riley Pasha
2341 Ulric St 
San Diego, CA 92111
(619) 548-6866
rileympasha@gmail.com
2.15.2. Landlord & Managing Agent
Landlord Name
Address for Notice
Phone
Email
Jeffrey Altman
1820 McKee Street
San Diego, CA 92110
6193956889
jeffa@cox.net
 Lease Agreement
Page 15 of 36
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Tenant and Landlord have executed this Lease as of the date of the last signature below.
TENANT SIGNATURE
Deborah Hample 
Riley Pasha 
LANDLORD SIGNATURE
Jeffrey Altman 
DebǄah Hample
01-28-2025 04:13:34 PM PST - 3-2
Riley Pasha
01-28-2025 11:04:38 AM PST - 2-3
Jeffrey Altman
01-29-2025 12:44:18 AM UTC - 4-1
 Lease Agreement
Page 16 of 36
Pet Addendum
This Pet Addendum is attached to and made a part of the lease between 
and 
for the Property dated as 
Landlord 
Tenant 
of the date hereof (
). All capitalized terms used in this Addendum have the meanings given such terms in the 
Lease
Lease.
A. PERMISSIONS TO HAVE PET(S)/IDENTIFICATION
Subject to Tenant’s compliance with this Addendum, Tenant is granted permission to keep only the following pet(s) at 
the Property during the Term of the Lease (each, a 
):
Pet
Pet Name
Description
Two cats
B. RULES, REGULATIONS, AND AGREEMENTS
The following pet rules apply:
1. Tenant represents that each Pet is properly licensed and vaccinated as required by applicable law, and Tenant agrees 
to keep all licensure and vaccinations current. Tenant further agrees to provide proof of licensing and vaccination upon 
Landlord's request.
2. Tenant represents to Landlord that each Pet is housebroken, has no vicious tendencies or history of threatening or 
causing harm to persons.
3. Pets must be kept on a leash (or otherwise under the direct physical control of Tenant or another person) at all time 
when, if applicable, in the Common Areas or other portions of the Building or grounds.
4. Tenant will clean up after each Pet and properly dispose of all waste.
5. Tenant will maintain the Property free of odor and stain from any Pet. Tenant will use prompt and diligent efforts to 
prevent and eliminate any infestation of pests (e.g. fleas) associated with any Pet.
6. Tenant will not groom or wash any Pet in a Common Area.
7. Tenant is responsible for controlling and minimizing noise caused by any Pet. Unreasonable levels of noise which 
interfere with the quiet enjoyment of any other tenants is prohibited.
8. Tenant is responsible for and will be charged for any damage to the Property or Building caused by any Pet. Damage 
includes, but are not limited to, damage to floors, carpets, drapes, screens, landscaping, and fencing, including any 
odors due to the presence of a Pet.
9. Tenant will indemnify and hold Landlord harmless from all liability, claims, demands, damages, and costs for injuries 
to persons or property in connection with Tenant's Pet(s).
10. If Landlord receives a complaint or otherwise has reasonable belief that the conduct or condition of a pet constitutes 
a nuisance under state or local law or otherwise poses a threat to the safety or health of others, Landlord may inspect 
the Property and if Landlord determines that the Pet constitutes a nuisance or threat to others, Landlord may revoke the 
permission granted under this Addendum and order Tenant to remove the subject Pet from the property. Tenant will 
comply with such order and permanently remove the subject Pet from the Property within 48 hours.
11. Landlord may (but is not obligated to) enter the Residence and remove (or, if applicable, permit any local authority to 
remove) any Pet from the resident's apartment and take such other action as permitted by law, including placing the Pet 
in a shelter at Tenant’s expense if: (a) the Pet becomes vicious, displays symptoms of severe illness, or demonstrates 
other behavior that indicates a threat to the health or safety of others, or (b) Tenant dies, becomes incapacitated, or 
 Lease Agreement
Page 17 of 36
otherwise unable to care for the Pet and (b) Landlord or Managing Agent believe in good faith the Pet is being abused or 
neglected or is in distress.
12. Any rights of Landlord may be exercised by Landlord’s Managing Agent, if applicable.
The violation of any provision of this Pet Addendum will constitute a Default under the Lease.
 Lease Agreement
Page 18 of 36
TENANT SIGNATURE
Deborah Hample 
Riley Pasha 
LANDLORD SIGNATURE
Jeffrey Altman 
DebǄah Hample
01-28-2025 04:13:34 PM PST - 3-6
Riley Pasha
01-28-2025 11:04:38 AM PST - 2-12
Jeffrey Altman
01-29-2025 12:44:18 AM UTC - 4-5
 Lease Agreement
Page 19 of 36
Parking Addendum
This Parking Addendum is attached to and made a part of the lease between 
and 
for the Property 
Landlord 
Tenant 
dated as of the date hereof (
). All capitalized terms used in this Addendum have the meanings given such terms in 
Lease
the Lease.
Tenant may park  vehicles in the parking area located on the grounds of the Building during the Lease term. Landlord 
3
shall be entitled to require all vehicles parking in the Parking Area to be registered with Landlord including, without 
limitation, providing Landlord with any required information, such as the vehicle license plate number and the owner’s 
name and contact information. Landlord shall be entitled to institute parking controls and other measures including, 
without limitation, requiring vehicle tags or decals and installing access gates with security cards or access codes. 
Landlord may impose reasonable and customary charges on Tenant and other Occupants for security cards and/or 
vehicle tags or decals.
No vehicles other than Registered Vehicles may be parked in the parking area by Tenant, any other Occupant, or any of 
their guests. If Tenant replaces any of the Registered Vehicles, Tenant must notify Landlord of that replacement and 
provide Landlord with the new identification information (as set forth above) for the replacement vehicle prior to parking 
that vehicle in the parking area.
NATURE OF PARKING RIGHTS
Tenant has the right to park only in the following reserved space(s): 
 (
Garage and parking spaces in front of unit.
). Tenant may not park in any spaces in the parking area other than the Tenant Spaces. No other tenant 
Tenant Spaces
has the right to park in the Tenant Spaces.
PARKING RULES AND REGULATIONS
In addition to the restrictions described above, the following motor vehicle rules apply to Tenant and any other tenant 
whose Lease includes parking rights:
1. The parking and traffic regulations posted on any private streets, roads, or drives must be obeyed.
2. The parking area will be used only to park motor vehicles and for loading or unloading of motor vehicles.
3. All ordinances regarding fire lanes must be obeyed. Any vehicle parked outside the parking area, parked in a fire lane, 
blocking a fire hydrant, refuse container, another vehicle, sidewalk, or lawn, or otherwise illegally or improperly parked 
may be towed by Landlord without notice at the vehicle owner’s expense.
4. Only operable passenger vehicles (including pick-up trucks) that can reasonably fit in a designated parking space may 
utilize the parking area. Commercial vehicles, recreational vehicles, boats or trailers, or other oversized vehicles may not 
be parked in the parking area.
5. Landlord may remove any vehicle at the owner’s expense if it reasonably appears to Landlord that the vehicle is 
abandoned or inoperable, the vehicle does not display an inspection sticker and/or license plates, or the inspection and
/or registration is expired.
6. Repairs to vehicles are prohibited in the parking area or on Building grounds, except for emergency repairs.
7. Vehicles may be washed only in designated areas. If there is no designated area, then washing vehicles is not 
allowed on the grounds of the Building.
8. Tenant’s use of the parking spaces and parking area are at Tenant’s own risk. Tenant acknowledges that Landlord 
does not provide security for the parking area and makes no representations concerning the security of the parking area. 
Landlord will not be liable or responsible for the damage to, or theft of, any vehicle or theft of any property from any 
vehicle.
 Lease Agreement
Page 20 of 36
The violation of any restriction, rule, or regulation contained in this Parking Addendum will constitute a Default by Tenant 
under the Lease.
 Lease Agreement
Page 21 of 36
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Tenant and Landlord hereby agree to this Parking Addendum.
TENANT SIGNATURE
Deborah Hample 
Riley Pasha 
LANDLORD SIGNATURE
Jeffrey Altman 
DebǄah Hample
01-28-2025 04:13:34 PM PST - 3-17
Riley Pasha
01-28-2025 11:04:38 AM PST - 2-23
Jeffrey Altman
01-29-2025 12:44:18 AM UTC - 4-15
 Lease Agreement
Page 22 of 36
Pre-Occupancy Addendum
This Pre-Occupancy Addendum is attached to and made a part of the lease between 
and 
for the 
Landlord 
Tenant 
Property dated as of the date hereof (
). All capitalized terms used in this Addendum have the meanings given 
Lease
such terms in the Lease.
Landlord will perform the following work prior to the Start Date: 
Touch up paint.
 Lease Agreement
Page 23 of 36
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Tenant and Landlord hereby agree to this Pre-Occupancy Work Addendum.
TENANT SIGNATURE
Deborah Hample 
Riley Pasha 
LANDLORD SIGNATURE
Jeffrey Altman 
DebǄah Hample
01-28-2025 04:13:34 PM PST - 3-24
Riley Pasha
01-28-2025 11:04:38 AM PST - 2-30
Jeffrey Altman
01-29-2025 12:44:18 AM UTC - 4-33
 Lease Agreement
Page 24 of 36
Rules Addendum
This Rules Addendum is attached to and made a part of the lease between 
and 
for the Property dated 
Landlord 
Tenant 
as of the date hereof (
). All capitalized terms used in this Addendum have the meanings given such terms in the 
Lease
Lease.
ACTIONS OF RESIDENTS
N/A
KEYS
N/A
USE OF PREMISES AND COMMON AREAS
- Tenant may not fasten anything to the fixtures, appliances, or to the interior or exterior of the property.
- Any balcony or porch included in Property, or adjacent to Property, may not be altered by Tenant or used to 
store their personal belongings.
- No laundry or other items will be hung from any window, balcony, or porch.
- Tenant may not bring anything onto the property or grounds which could increase the risk of fire (e.g., 
flammable chemicals).
- No wax candles will be used on the property.
- Tenant may not cook or barbecue on any porch or balcony or within 15 feet of any building.
- Tenant won't place any sign, advertisement, or notice so that it's visible outside the property.
- Tenant won't add or change any locks without prior written consent of Landlord.
OTHERS
 Lease Agreement
Page 25 of 36
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Tenant and Landlord hereby agree to this Rules Addendum.
TENANT SIGNATURE
Deborah Hample 
Riley Pasha 
LANDLORD SIGNATURE
Jeffrey Altman 
DebǄah Hample
01-28-2025 04:13:34 PM PST - 3-34
Riley Pasha
01-28-2025 11:04:38 AM PST - 2-37
Jeffrey Altman
01-29-2025 12:44:18 AM UTC - 4-43
 Lease Agreement
Page 26 of 36
Lead Based Paint Hazard Disclosure
LEAD WARNING STATEMENT
Housing built before 1978 may contain lead-based paint. Lead from paint, paint chips, and dust can pose health hazards 
if not managed properly. Lead exposure is especially harmful to young children and pregnant women. Before renting pre-
1978 housing, lessors must disclose the presence of known lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards in the 
dwelling. Lessees must also receive a federally approved pamphlet on lead poisoning prevention.
LANDLORD'S DISCLOSURES
Landlord has no knowledge of lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards in the housing.
Landlord has no records and reports pertaining to lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards in the housing.
TENANT'S ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
By signing below, Tenant acknowledges receipt of copies of all information listed above. In addition, by signing below, 
Tenant acknowledges receipt of the pamphlet Protect Your Family from Lead in Your Home, a copy of which is attached 
to this Lease.
CERTIFICATE OF ACCURACY
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the following parties have reviewed the information above and certify, to the best of their 
knowledge, that the information they have provided is true and accurate.
TENANT SIGNATURE
Deborah Hample 
Riley Pasha 
LANDLORD SIGNATURE
Jeffrey Altman 
DebǄah Hample
01-28-2025 04:13:34 PM PST - 3-45
Riley Pasha
01-28-2025 11:04:38 AM PST - 2-44
Jeffrey Altman
01-29-2025 12:44:18 AM UTC - 4-46
 Lease Agreement
Page 27 of 36
Megan's Law Disclosure
Notice: Pursuant to Section 290.46 of the California Penal Code, information about specified registered sex offenders is 
made available to the public via an internet web site maintained by The Department of Justice at www.meganslaw.ca.
gov. Depending on an offender's criminal history, this information will include either the address at which the offender 
resides or the community of residence and ZIP code in which the offender resides.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Tenant and Landlord hereby acknowledge this disclosure
TENANT SIGNATURE
Deborah Hample 
Riley Pasha 
LANDLORD SIGNATURE
Jeffrey Altman 
DebǄah Hample
01-28-2025 04:13:34 PM PST - 3-56
Riley Pasha
01-28-2025 11:04:38 AM PST - 2-50
Jeffrey Altman
01-29-2025 12:44:18 AM UTC - 4-48
 Lease Agreement
Page 28 of 36
Asbestos Report
Asbestos is a common building material that may be present in many buildings constructed prior to 1981.
The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has determined the mere presence of asbestos materials 
does not pose a health risk to residents and that such materials are safe as long as they are not disturbed or dislodged 
in a manner that causes the asbestos fibers to be released. Sanding, scraping, pounding and other remodeling 
techniques that release dust may cause asbestos particles to become airborne.
EPA rules do not require the material to be removed. Federal law requires that reasonable precautions are taken to 
minimize the chance of damage or disturbance of asbestos containing materials.
Tenant(s) acknowledge this is a WARNING that the Leased Premises may contain asbestos and may expose him/her to 
a chemical known to cause cancer.
Landlord has no knowledge of asbestos and/or asbestos hazards located in or around the leased Premises.
 Lease Agreement
Page 29 of 36
TENANT SIGNATURE
Deborah Hample 
Riley Pasha 
LANDLORD SIGNATURE
Jeffrey Altman 
DebǄah Hample
01-28-2025 04:13:34 PM PST - 3-64
Riley Pasha
01-28-2025 11:04:38 AM PST - 2-59
Jeffrey Altman
01-29-2025 12:44:18 AM UTC - 4-58
 Lease Agreement
Page 30 of 36
Flood Hazard Disclosure
Landlord has no knowledge that the Property is located in a special flood hazard area or an area of potential flooding.
Tenant may obtain information about hazards, including flood hazards, that may affect the property from the California 
Governor's Office of Emergency Services at http://www.myhazards.caloes.ca.gov. Landlord is not required to provide 
any additional information concerning flood hazards to the property.
TENANT SIGNATURE
Deborah Hample 
Riley Pasha 
LANDLORD SIGNATURE
Jeffrey Altman 
DebǄah Hample
01-28-2025 04:13:34 PM PST - 3-73
Riley Pasha
01-28-2025 11:04:38 AM PST - 2-71
Jeffrey Altman
01-29-2025 12:44:18 AM UTC - 4-75
 Lease Agreement
Page 31 of 36
Methamphetamine Laboratory Contamination Notice
California law (Health and Safety Code Section 25400.28) requires property owners to provide written notice to all 
prospective tenants that have completed an application to rent an affected dwelling unit or other property of any 
methamphetamine remediation order, and shall provide the prospective tenant with a copy of such order.
Methamphetamine contamination can be dangerous to Tenant in high concentrations, presenting health concerns 
through absorption of the materials in the air.
This Property has no suspicion of contamination.
TENANT SIGNATURE
Deborah Hample 
Riley Pasha 
LANDLORD SIGNATURE
Jeffrey Altman 
DebǄah Hample
01-28-2025 04:13:34 PM PST - 3-86
Riley Pasha
01-28-2025 11:04:38 AM PST - 2-83
Jeffrey Altman
01-29-2025 12:44:18 AM UTC - 4-77
 Lease Agreement
Page 32 of 36
Death In The Property Notice
Tenant has a right to have questions answered pertaining to death in the rental unit to the best of the Landlord’s 
knowledge upon request. At the time of this Lease agreement, Landlord certifies the following information pertaining to 
the history of death in the rental property:
No death reported.
TENANT SIGNATURE
Deborah Hample 
Riley Pasha 
LANDLORD SIGNATURE
Jeffrey Altman 
DebǄah Hample
01-28-2025 04:13:34 PM PST - 3-89
Riley Pasha
01-28-2025 11:04:38 AM PST - 2-92
Jeffrey Altman
01-29-2025 12:44:18 AM UTC - 4-96
 Lease Agreement
Page 33 of 36
Tenant Protection Act Disclosure
This property is not subject to the rent limits imposed by Section 1947.12 of the Civil Code and is not subject to the just 
cause requirements of Section 1946.2 of the Civil Code. This property meets the requirements of Sections 1947.12 (d)
(5) and 1946.2 (e)(8) of the Civil Code and the owner is not any of the following: (1) a real estate investment trust, as 
defined by Section 856 of the Internal Revenue Code; (2) a corporation; or (3) a limited liability company in which at least 
one member is a corporation.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the following parties have reviewed the information above.
TENANT SIGNATURE
Deborah Hample 
Riley Pasha 
LANDLORD SIGNATURE
Jeffrey Altman 
DebǄah Hample
01-28-2025 04:13:34 PM PST - 3-99
Riley Pasha
01-28-2025 11:04:38 AM PST - 2-104
Jeffrey Altman
01-29-2025 12:44:18 AM UTC - 4-106
 Lease Agreement
Page 34 of 36
Military Facilities Disclosure
The Property is not located within one mile of an abandoned or closed military base where ammunition or military 
explosives were used.
TENANT SIGNATURE
Deborah Hample 
Riley Pasha 
LANDLORD SIGNATURE
Jeffrey Altman 
DebǄah Hample
01-28-2025 04:13:34 PM PST - 3-110
Riley Pasha
01-28-2025 11:04:38 AM PST - 2-113
Jeffrey Altman
01-29-2025 12:44:18 AM UTC - 4-116
 Lease Agreement
Page 35 of 36
Information about Bed Bugs
BED BUG APPEARANCE
Bed bugs have six legs. Adult bed bugs have flat bodies about 1/4 of an inch in length. Their color can vary from red and 
brown to copper colored. Young bed bugs are very small. Their bodies are about 1/16 of an inch in length. They have 
almost no color. When a bed bug feeds, its body swells, may lengthen, and becomes bright red, sometimes making it 
appear to be a different insect. Bed bugs do not fly. They can either crawl or be carried from place to place on objects, 
people, or animals. Bed bugs can be hard to find and identify because they are tiny and try to stay hidden.
LIFE CYCLE AND REPRODUCTION
An average bed bug lives for about 10 months. Female bed bugs lay one to five eggs per day. Bed bugs grow to full 
adulthood in about 21 days.
Bed bugs can survive for months without feeding.
BED BUG BITES
Because bed bugs usually feed at night, most people are bitten in their sleep and do not realize they were bitten. A 
person’s reaction to insect bites is an immune response and so varies from person to person. Sometimes the red welts 
caused by the bites will not be noticed until many days after a person was bitten, if at all.
Common signs and symptoms of a possible bed bug infestation:
• Small red to reddish brown fecal spots on mattresses, box springs, bed frames, mattresses, linens, upholstery, or walls.
• Molted bed bug skins, white, sticky eggs, or empty eggshells.
• Very heavily infested areas may have a characteristically sweet odor.
• Red, itchy bite marks, especially on the legs, arms, and other body parts exposed while sleeping. However, some 
people do not show bed bug lesions on their bodies even though bed bugs may have fed on them.
For more information, see the Internet Web sites of the United States Environmental Protection Agency and the National 
Pest Management Association.
CERTIFICATE OF ACCURACY
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Tenant and Landlord have executed this Notice as of the date of the last signature below.
TENANT SIGNATURE
Deborah Hample 
Riley Pasha 
DebǄah Hample
01-28-2025 04:13:34 PM PST - 3-118
Riley Pasha
01-28-2025 11:04:38 AM PST - 2-121
 Lease Agreement
Page 36 of 36
LANDLORD SIGNATURE
Jeffrey Altman 
Jeffrey Altman
01-29-2025 12:44:18 AM UTC - 4-123
Protect 
Your 
Family 
From 
Lead in 
Your 
Home 
United States  
Environmental  
Protection Agency 
United States  
Consumer Product  
Safety Commission 
United States  
Department of Housing  
and Urban Development 
March 2021 
 
Are You Planning to Buy or Rent a Home Built  
Before 1978? 
Did you know that many homes built before 1978 have lead-based 
paint? Lead from paint, chips, and dust can pose serious health 
hazards. 
Read this entire brochure to learn: 
• How lead gets into the body
• How lead afects health
• What you can do to protect your family
• Where to go for more information
Before renting or buying a pre-1978 home or apartment, federal 
law requires: 
• Sellers must disclose known information on lead-based paint or lead-
based paint hazards before selling a house.
• Real estate sales contracts must include a specifc warning statement
about lead-based paint. Buyers have up to 10 days to check for lead.
• Landlords must disclose known information on lead-based paint
or lead-based paint hazards before leases take efect. Leases must
include a specifc warning statement about lead-based paint.
If undertaking renovations, repairs, or painting (RRP) projects in 
your pre-1978 home or apartment: 
• Read EPA’s pamphlet, The Lead-Safe Certifed Guide to Renovate Right,
to learn about the lead-safe work practices that contractors are
required to follow when working in your home (see page 12).
Simple Steps to Protect Your Family 
from Lead Hazards 
If you think your home has lead-based paint: 
• Don’t try to remove lead-based paint yourself. 
• Always keep painted surfaces in good condition to minimize 
deterioration. 
• Get your home checked for lead hazards. Find a certifed 
inspector or risk assessor at epa.gov/lead. 
• Talk to your landlord about fxing surfaces with peeling or 
chipping paint. 
• Regularly clean foors, window sills, and other surfaces. 
• Take precautions to avoid exposure to lead dust when 
remodeling. 
• When renovating, repairing, or painting, hire only EPA- or state-
approved Lead-Safe certifed renovation frms. 
• Before buying, renting, or renovating your home, have it 
checked for lead-based paint. 
• Consult your health care provider about testing your children 
for lead. Your pediatrician can check for lead with a simple 
blood test. 
• Wash children’s hands, bottles, pacifers, and toys often. 
• Make sure children eat healthy, low-fat foods high in iron, 
calcium, and vitamin C. 
• Remove shoes or wipe soil of shoes before entering your 
house. 
1 
Lead Gets into the Body in Many Ways 
Adults and children can get lead into their bodies if they: 
• Breathe in lead dust (especially during activities such as renovations, 
repairs, or painting that disturb painted surfaces). 
• Swallow lead dust that has settled on food, food preparation surfaces, 
and other places. 
• Eat paint chips or soil that contains lead. 
Lead is especially dangerous to children under the age of 6. 
• At this age, children’s brains 
and nervous systems are 
more sensitive to the 
damaging efects of lead. 
• Children’s growing bodies 
absorb more lead. 
• Babies and young children 
often put their hands 
and other objects in their 
mouths. These objects can 
have lead dust on them. 
Women of childbearing age should know that lead is dangerous to 
a developing fetus. 
• Women with a high lead level in their system before or during 
pregnancy risk exposing the fetus to lead through the placenta 
during fetal development. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Health Efects of Lead 
Lead afects the body in many ways.  It is important to know that 
even exposure to low levels of lead can severely harm children. 
In children, exposure to lead can cause: 
Brain Nerve Damage 
Hearing 
• Nervous system and kidney damage 
• Learning disabilities, attention-defcit 
disorder, and decreased intelligence 
• Speech, language, and behavior 
problems 
• Poor muscle coordination 
• Decreased muscle and bone growth 
• Hearing damage 
Problems 
Slowed 
Growth 
Digestive 
Problems 
Reproductive 
Problems 
(Adults) 
While low-lead exposure is most common, 
exposure to high amounts of lead can have 
devastating efects on children, including 
seizures, unconsciousness, and in some cases, death. 
Although children are especially susceptible to lead exposure, lead can 
be dangerous for adults, too. 
In adults, exposure to lead can cause: 
• Harm to a developing fetus 
• Increased chance of high blood pressure during pregnancy 
• Fertility problems (in men and women) 
• High blood pressure 
• Digestive problems 
• Nerve disorders 
• Memory and concentration problems 
• Muscle and joint pain 
3 
Check Your Family for Lead 
Get your children and home tested if you think your home has 
lead. 
Children’s blood lead levels tend to increase rapidly from 6 to 12 
months of age, and tend to peak at 18 to 24 months of age. 
Consult your doctor for advice on testing your children. A simple blood 
test can detect lead. Blood lead tests are usually recommended for: 
• Children at ages 1 and 2 
• Children or other family members who have been exposed to high 
levels of lead 
• Children who should be tested under your state or local health 
screening plan 
Your doctor can explain what the test results mean and if more 
testing will be needed. 
4 
 
  
 
  
Where Lead-Based Paint Is Found 
In general, the older your home or childcare facility, the more likely it 
has lead-based paint.1 
Many homes, including private, federally-assisted, federally-
owned housing, and childcare facilities built before 1978 have 
lead-based paint. In 1978, the federal government banned consumer 
uses of lead-containing paint.2 
Learn how to determine if paint is lead-based paint on page 7. 
Lead can be found: 
• In homes and childcare facilities in the city, country, or suburbs, 
• In private and public single-family homes and apartments, 
• On surfaces inside and outside of the house, and 
• In soil around a home. (Soil can pick up lead from exterior paint or 
other sources, such as past use of leaded gas in cars.) 
Learn more about where lead is found at epa.gov/lead. 
1 “Lead-based paint” is currently defned by the federal government as paint with 
lead levels greater than or equal to 1.0 milligram per square centimeter (mg/cm2), or 
more than 0.5% by weight. 
2 “Lead-containing paint” is currently defned by the federal government as lead in new 
dried paint in excess of 90 parts per million (ppm) by weight. 
5 
 
 
 
Identifying Lead-Based Paint and Lead-Based Paint 
Hazards 
Deteriorated lead-based paint (peeling, chipping, chalking, 
cracking, or damaged paint) is a hazard and needs immediate 
attention. Lead-based paint may also be a hazard when found on 
surfaces that children can chew or that get a lot of wear and tear, 
such as: 
• On windows and window sills 
• Doors and door frames 
• Stairs, railings, banisters, and porches 
Lead-based paint is usually not a hazard if it is in good condition 
and if it is not on an impact or friction surface like a window. 
Lead dust can form when lead-based paint is scraped, sanded, or 
heated. Lead dust also forms when painted surfaces containing 
lead bump or rub together. Lead paint chips and dust can get on 
surfaces and objects that people touch. Settled lead dust can reenter 
the air when the home is vacuumed or swept, or when people walk 
through it. EPA currently defnes the following levels of lead in dust as 
hazardous: 
• 10 micrograms per square foot (μg/ft2) and higher for foors, 
including carpeted foors 
• 100 μg/ft2 and higher for interior window sills 
Lead in soil can be a hazard when children play in bare soil or when 
people bring soil into the house on their shoes. EPA currently defnes 
the following levels of lead in soil as hazardous: 
• 400 parts per million (ppm) and higher in play areas of bare soil 
• 1,200 ppm (average) and higher in bare soil in the remainder 
of the yard 
Remember, lead from paint chips—which you can see—and lead 
dust—which you may not be able to see—both can be hazards. 
The only way to fnd out if paint, dust, or soil lead hazards exist is to 
test for them. The next page describes how to do this. 
6 
 
   
 
Checking Your Home for Lead 
You can get your home tested for lead in several diferent ways: 
• A lead-based paint inspection tells you if your home has lead-
based paint and where it is located. It won’t tell you whether your 
home currently has lead hazards. A trained and certifed testing 
professional, called a lead-based paint 
inspector, will conduct a paint inspection 
using methods, such as: 
• Portable x-ray fuorescence (XRF) machine 
• Lab tests of paint samples 
• A risk assessment tells you if your home 
currently has any lead hazards from lead 
in paint, dust, or soil. It also tells you what 
actions to take to address any hazards. A 
trained and certifed testing professional, 
called a risk assessor, will: 
• Sample paint that is deteriorated on doors, windows, foors, stairs, 
and walls 
• Sample dust near painted surfaces and sample bare soil in the 
    yard 
• Get lab tests of paint, dust, and soil samples 
• A combination inspection and risk assessment tells you if your home 
has any lead-based paint and if your home has any lead hazards, and 
where both are located. 
Be sure to read the report provided to you after your inspection or risk 
assessment is completed, and ask questions about anything you do not 
understand. 
7 
Checking Your Home for Lead, continued 
In preparing for renovation, repair, or painting work in a pre-1978 
home, Lead-Safe Certifed renovators (see page 12) may: 
• Take paint chip samples to determine if lead-based paint is 
present in the area planned for renovation and send them to an 
EPA-recognized lead lab for analysis. In housing receiving federal 
assistance, the person collecting these samples must be a certifed 
lead-based paint inspector or risk assessor 
• Use EPA-recognized tests kits to determine if lead-based paint is 
absent (but not in housing receiving federal assistance) 
• Presume that lead-based paint is present and use lead-safe work 
practices 
There are state and federal programs in place to ensure that testing is 
done safely, reliably, and efectively. Contact your state or local agency 
for more information, visit epa.gov/lead, or call 1-800-424-LEAD 
(5323) for a list of contacts in your area.3 
3  Hearing- or speech-challenged individuals may access this number through TTY by 
calling the Federal Relay Service at 1-800-877-8339. 
8 
What You Can Do Now to Protect Your Family 
If you suspect that your house has lead-based paint hazards, you 
can take some immediate steps to reduce your family’s risk: 
• If you rent, notify your landlord of peeling or chipping paint. 
• Keep painted surfaces clean and free of dust. Clean foors, window 
frames, window sills, and other surfaces weekly. Use a mop or sponge 
with warm water and a general all-purpose cleaner. (Remember: 
never mix ammonia and bleach products together because they can 
form a dangerous gas.) 
• Carefully clean up paint chips immediately without creating dust. 
• Thoroughly rinse sponges and mop heads often during cleaning of 
dirty or dusty areas, and again afterward. 
• Wash your hands and your children’s hands often, especially before 
they eat and before nap time and bed time. 
• Keep play areas clean. Wash bottles, pacifers, toys, and stufed 
animals regularly. 
• Keep children from chewing window sills or other painted surfaces, or 
eating soil. 
• When renovating, repairing, or painting, hire only EPA- or state-
approved Lead-Safe Certifed renovation frms (see page 12). 
• Clean or remove shoes before entering your home to avoid tracking 
in lead from soil. 
• Make sure children eat nutritious, low-fat meals high in iron, and 
calcium, such as spinach and dairy products. Children with good diets 
absorb less lead. 
9 
Reducing Lead Hazards 
Disturbing lead-based paint or 
removing lead improperly can 
increase the hazard to your family by 
spreading even more lead dust around 
the house. 
• In addition to day-to-day cleaning 
and good nutrition, you can 
temporarily reduce lead-based paint 
hazards by taking actions, such as 
repairing damaged painted surfaces 
and planting grass to cover lead-
contaminated soil. These actions are 
not permanent solutions and will need 
ongoing attention. 
• You can minimize exposure to lead 
when renovating, repairing, or painting by hiring an EPA- or state-
certifed renovator who is trained in the use of lead-safe work 
practices. If you are a do-it-yourselfer, learn how to use lead–safe 
work practices in your home. 
• To remove lead hazards permanently, you should hire a certifed lead 
abatement contractor. Abatement (or permanent hazard elimination) 
methods include removing, sealing, or enclosing lead-based paint 
with special materials. Just painting over the hazard with regular 
paint is not permanent control. 
Always use a certifed contractor who is trained to address lead 
hazards safely. 
• Hire a Lead-Safe Certifed frm (see page 12) to perform renovation, 
repair, or painting (RRP) projects that disturb painted surfaces. 
• To correct lead hazards permanently, hire a certifed lead abatement 
contractor. This will ensure your contractor knows how to work safely 
and has the proper equipment to clean up thoroughly. 
Certifed contractors will employ qualifed workers and follow strict 
safety rules as set by their state or by the federal government. 
10 
Reducing Lead Hazards, continued
If your home has had lead abatement work done or if the housing is 
receiving federal assistance, once the work is completed, dust cleanup 
activities must be conducted until clearance testing indicates that lead 
dust levels are below the following levels:
•  10 micrograms per square foot (μg/ft2) for floors, including carpeted 
floors
•  100 μg/ft2 for interior windows sills
•  400 μg/ft2 for window troughs
Abatements are designed to permanently eliminate lead-based 
paint hazards. However, lead dust can be reintroduced into an  
abated area.
•   Use a HEPA vacuum on all furniture and other items returned to the 
area, to reduce the potential for reintroducing lead dust. 
•   Regularly clean floors, window sills, troughs, and other hard surfaces 
with a damp cloth or sponge and a general all-purpose cleaner.
Please see page 9 for more information on steps you can take to 
protect your home after the abatement. For help in locating certified 
lead abatement professionals in your area, call your state or local 
agency (see pages 15 and 16), epa.gov/lead, or call 1-800-424-LEAD.
11
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
Renovating, Repairing or Painting a Home with 
Lead-Based Paint 
If you hire a contractor to conduct renovation, repair, or painting 
(RRP) projects in your pre-1978 home or childcare facility (such as 
pre-school and kindergarten), your contractor must: 
• Be a Lead-Safe Certifed frm approved by EPA or an 
EPA-authorized state program 
• Use qualifed trained individuals (Lead-Safe 
Certifed renovators) who follow specifc lead-safe 
work practices to prevent lead contamination 
• Provide a copy of EPA’s lead hazard information 
document, The Lead-Safe Certifed Guide to 
Renovate Right 
RRP contractors working in pre-1978 homes and childcare facilities 
must follow lead-safe work practices that: 
• Contain the work area. The area must be contained so that dust and 
debris do not escape from the work area. Warning signs must be put 
up, and plastic or other impermeable material and tape must be used. 
• Avoid renovation methods that generate large amounts of 
lead-contaminated dust. Some methods generate so much lead-
contaminated dust that their use is prohibited. They are: 
• Open-fame burning or torching 
• Sanding, grinding, planing, needle gunning, or blasting with 
power tools and equipment not equipped with a shroud and 
HEPA vacuum attachment 
• Using a heat gun at temperatures greater than 1100°F 
• Clean up thoroughly. The work area should be cleaned up daily. 
When all the work is done, the area must be cleaned up using special 
cleaning methods. 
• Dispose of waste properly. Collect and seal waste in a heavy duty 
bag or sheeting. When transported, ensure that waste is contained to 
prevent release of dust and debris. 
To learn more about EPA’s requirements for RRP projects, visit 
epa.gov/getleadsafe, or read The Lead-Safe Certifed Guide to 
Renovate Right. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
Other Sources of Lead 
Lead in Drinking Water 
The most common sources of lead in drinking water are lead pipes, 
faucets, and fxtures. 
Lead pipes are more likely to be found in older cities and homes built 
before 1986. 
You can’t smell or taste lead in drinking water. 
To fnd out for certain if you have lead in drinking water, have your 
water tested. 
Remember older homes with a private well can also have plumbing 
materials that contain lead. 
Important Steps You Can Take to Reduce Lead in Drinking Water 
• Use only cold water for drinking, cooking and making baby formula. 
Remember, boiling water does not remove lead from water. 
• Before drinking, fush your home’s pipes by running the tap, taking a 
shower, doing laundry, or doing a load of dishes. 
• Regularly clean your faucet’s screen (also known as an aerator). 
• If you use a flter certifed to remove lead, don’t forget to read the 
directions to learn when to change the cartridge. Using a flter after it 
has expired can make it less efective at removing lead. 
Contact your water company to determine if the pipe that connects 
your home to the water main (called a service line) is made from lead. 
Your area’s water company can also provide information about the lead 
levels in your system’s drinking water. 
For more information about lead in drinking water, please contact 
EPA’s Safe Drinking Water Hotline at 1-800-426-4791.  If you have other 
questions about lead poisoning prevention, call 1-800 424-LEAD.* 
Call your local health department or water company to fnd out about 
testing your water, or visit epa.gov/safewater for EPA’s lead in drinking 
water information. Some states or utilities ofer programs to pay for 
water testing for residents. Contact your state or local water company 
to learn more. 
* Hearing- or speech-challenged individuals may access this number through TTY 
13 
by calling the Federal Relay Service at 1-800-877-8339. 
  
  
  
 
Other Sources of Lead, continued 
• Lead smelters or other industries that release lead into the air. 
• Your job. If you work with lead, you could bring it home on your body 
or clothes. Shower and change clothes before coming home. Launder 
your work clothes separately from the rest of your family’s clothes. 
• Hobbies that use lead, such as making pottery or stained glass, 
or refnishing furniture. Call your local health department for 
information about hobbies that may use lead. 
•  Old toys and furniture may have been painted with lead-containing 
paint. Older toys and other children’s products may have parts that 
contain lead.4 
•  Food and liquids cooked or stored in lead crystal or lead-glazed 
pottery or porcelain may contain lead. 
•  Folk remedies, such as “greta” and “azarcon,” used to treat an upset 
stomach. 
4  In 1978, the federal government banned toys, other children’s products, and furniture 
with lead-containing paint. In 2008, the federal government banned lead in most 
children’s products. The federal government currently bans lead in excess of 100 ppm 
by weight in most children’s products. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For More Information 
The National Lead Information Center 
Learn how to protect children from lead poisoning and get other 
information about lead hazards on the Web at epa.gov/lead and 
hud.gov/lead, or call 1-800-424-LEAD (5323). 
EPA’s Safe Drinking Water Hotline 
For information about lead in drinking water, call 1-800-426-4791, or 
visit epa.gov/safewater for information about lead in drinking water. 
Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) Hotline 
For information on lead in toys and other consumer products, or to 
report an unsafe consumer product or a product-related injury, call 
1-800-638-2772, or visit CPSC’s website at cpsc.gov or 
saferproducts.gov. 
State and Local Health and Environmental Agencies 
Some states, tribes, and cities have their own rules related to lead-
based paint. Check with your local agency to see which laws apply 
to you. Most agencies can also provide information on fnding a lead 
abatement frm in your area, and on possible sources of fnancial aid 
for reducing lead hazards. Receive up-to-date address and phone 
information for your state or local contacts on the Web at epa.gov/lead, 
or contact the National Lead Information Center at 1-800-424-LEAD. 
Hearing- or speech-challenged individuals may access any of the 
phone numbers in this brochure through TTY by calling the toll-
free Federal Relay Service at 1-800-877-8339. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
U. S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 
Regional Ofces 
The mission of EPA is to protect human health and the environment. 
Your Regional EPA Ofce can provide further information regarding 
regulations and lead protection programs. 
Region 1 (Connecticut, Massachusetts, Maine, 
New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Vermont) 
Regional Lead Contact 
U.S. EPA Region 1 
5 Post Ofce Square, Suite 100, OES 05-4 
Boston, MA 02109-3912 
(888) 372-7341 
Region 2 (New Jersey, New York, Puerto Rico, 
Virgin Islands) 
Regional Lead Contact 
U.S. EPA Region 2 
2890 Woodbridge Avenue 
Building 205, Mail Stop 225 
Edison, NJ 08837-3679 
(732) 906-6809
Region 3 (Delaware, Maryland, Pennsylvania, 
Virginia, DC, West Virginia) 
Regional Lead Contact 
U.S. EPA Region 3 
1650 Arch Street 
Philadelphia, PA 19103 
(215) 814-2088 
Region 4 (Alabama, Florida, Georgia, 
Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, South 
Carolina, Tennessee) 
Regional Lead Contact 
U.S. EPA Region 4 
AFC Tower, 12th Floor, Air, Pesticides & Toxics 
61 Forsyth Street, SW 
Atlanta, GA 30303 
(404) 562-8998 
Region 5 (Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, 
Minnesota, Ohio, Wisconsin) 
Regional Lead Contact 
U.S. EPA Region 5 (LL-17J) 
77 West Jackson Boulevard 
Chicago, IL 60604-3666 
(312) 353-3808
Region 6 (Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, 
Oklahoma, Texas, and 66 Tribes) 
Regional Lead Contact 
U.S. EPA Region 6 
1445 Ross Avenue, 12th Floor 
Dallas, TX 75202-2733 
(214) 665-2704 
Region 7 (Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, Nebraska) 
Regional Lead Contact 
U.S. EPA Region 7 
11201 Renner Blvd. 
Lenexa, KS 66219 
(800) 223-0425 
Region 8 (Colorado, Montana, North 
Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, Wyoming) 
Regional Lead Contact 
U.S. EPA Region 8 
1595 Wynkoop St. 
Denver, CO 80202 
(303) 312-6966 
Region 9 (Arizona, California, Hawaii, 
Nevada) 
Regional Lead Contact 
U.S. EPA Region 9 (CMD-4-2) 
75 Hawthorne Street 
San Francisco, CA 94105 
(415) 947-4280 
Region 10 (Alaska, Idaho, Oregon, 
Washington) 
Regional Lead Contact 
U.S. EPA Region 10 (20-C04)
Air and Toxics Enforcement Section 
1200 Sixth Avenue, Suite 155 
Seattle, WA 98101 
(206) 553-1200 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) 
The CPSC protects the public against unreasonable risk of injury 
from consumer products through education, safety standards 
activities, and enforcement. Contact CPSC for further information 
regarding consumer product safety and regulations. 
CPSC 
4330 East West Highway 
Bethesda, MD 20814-4421 
1-800-638-2772
cpsc.gov or saferproducts.gov
U. S. Department of Housing and Urban 
Development (HUD) 
HUD’s mission is to create strong, sustainable, inclusive 
communities and quality afordable homes for all. Contact to 
Ofce of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes for further 
information regarding the Lead Safe Housing Rule, which 
protects families in pre-1978 assisted housing, and for the 
lead hazard control and research grant programs. 
HUD 
451 Seventh Street, SW, Room 8236 
Washington, DC 20410-3000 
(202) 402-7698
hud.gov/lead
This document is in the public domain. It may be produced by an individual or organization without 
permission. Information provided in this booklet is based upon current scientifc and technical 
understanding of the issues presented and is refective of the jurisdictional boundaries established by 
the statutes governing the co-authoring agencies. Following the advice given will not necessarily 
provide complete protection in all situations or against all health hazards that can be caused by lead 
exposure. 
U. S. EPA Washington DC 20460 
EPA-747-K-12-001 
U. S. CPSC Bethesda MD 20814 
March 2021 
U. S. HUD Washington DC 20410 
17 
 
 
IMPORTANT! 
Lead From Paint, Dust, and Soil in and 
Around Your Home Can Be Dangerous if 
Not Managed Properly 
• Children under 6 years old are most at risk for lead 
poisoning in your home. 
• Lead exposure can harm young children and babies even 
before they are born. 
• Homes, schools, and child care facilities built before 1978 
are likely to contain lead-based paint. 
• Even children who seem healthy may have dangerous 
levels of lead in their bodies. 
• Disturbing surfaces with lead-based paint or removing 
lead-based paint improperly can increase the danger to 
your family. 
• People can get lead into their bodies by breathing or 
swallowing lead dust, or by eating soil or paint chips 
containing lead. 
• People have many options for reducing lead hazards. 
Generally, lead-based paint that is in good condition is not 
a hazard (see page 10). 
